import { SEO } from "../components/seo"
import { Avatar } from "../components/avatar"

<SEO title="About" /> <Avatar />

# About

I began my career in photojournalism, shooting for a major news website in the
Baltics, [DELFI](https://www.delfi.lt/). There I was nominated for the 2009
Lithuanian Press Photography awards, [attended by the former
president](http://www.old2.pressphoto.lt/lt/parodos/lsfk2009_adamkus/).

With the release of the original iPhone in 2007, [many
thought](https://www.nytimes.com/2009/08/11/business/media/11photo.html) it was
the beginning of the end for photojournalism, so I took the opportunity to
pursue another dream: moving to the UK, where I studied film and television at
[Kingston University](https://www.kingston.ac.uk/).

To pay the bills, I worked throughout my studies, including as inhouse
researcher for OneWeek Media. It was there that I found web development. While
designing and building websites, using Photoshop, HTML and CSS, I learnt to
appreciate the process of designing something from scratch, making many mistakes
along the way. I taught myself how to develop websites using WordPress, which
gave me a taste of dynamic websites.

I focused on creating custom themes and trying to use as few plugins as
possible, but I wanted to learn more, so I moved on to an agency, The Creative
Clinic, as their first developer. There I gained a deeper understanding of
WordPress, domain and DNS management. I also learnt to manage customer
expectations and how to work in an agile way.

My next role took me to video agency [Ostmodern](https://www.ostmodern.co.uk/).
It’s here that the words Git, Bower, Gulp, Grunt, SASS, BEM, Webpack, dev,
staging, preprod, first entered my vocabulary.

At Ostmodern, I had the chance to work for some fantastic brands, including [BBC
Worldwide](https://player.bbc.com/en) (now BBC Studios),
[BFI](https://player.bfi.org.uk/britain-on-film), and [Olympic
Channel](https://www.olympicchannel.com/). I found myself in a unique position
between design and engineering. When designers needed pixel-precision, they
would come to me.

Ostmodern gave me the edge to get my next role: a front end developer at
[GoCardless](https://gocardless.com/), within the Design department. They didn’t
want just an engineer, they wanted an engineer who cared deeply about design. I
couldn’t be more proud of my time at one of London’s fastest growing fintechs.
The mad rush of an agency was over and it was all about quality. Start with why
and everything else follows. While at Ostmodern I discovered the tools, at
GoCardless I used every single one of them, because expectations were higher
than ever.

One of my first challenges was to take a desktop-friendly website and make it
responsive. A few months later I joined a newly formed team with a single goal –
to increase customer acquisition. 9 months and 2 failed A/B experiments later,
we delivered with 10% increase in customer sign-ups.

With yet another reorg on the cards, as is common for fast scaling startups, it
was time for a change. This is when I joined [eporta](https://www.eporta.com/),
an online sourcing platform. My priority was to work in a small, agile team to
transform their marketing website. That meant understanding our customers’
needs, collaborating with design, building concepts, and iterating. Once we had
something we were proud of, we put it in front of our customers. I then joined a
team working on the core product.

In March 2020, I joined [Simply Business](https://www.simplybusiness.co.uk/), an
online broker of business insurance where I work in a cross-functional team on
the company’s UK and US websites.

## Contact

You can find me on
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joseph-markus-964a68104/),
[Github](https://github.com/josephmarkus). You can also [email
me](mailto:joseph.markus@outlook.com)
